[Skip to main content](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/prompt#__docusaurus_skipToContent_fallback)

If you're enjoying Oh My Posh, consider becoming a [sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/JanDeDobbeleer)
 to keep the project going strong 💪

tip

If you have no idea which shell you're currently using, Oh My Posh has a utility switch that can tell that to you.

    oh-my-posh get shell

*   bash
*   claude
*   cmd
*   elvish
*   fish
*   nu
*   powershell
*   xonsh
*   zsh

Add the following snippet as the last line to `~/.bashrc` (could be `~/.profile` or `~/.bash_profile` depending on your environment):

    eval "$(oh-my-posh init bash)"

Once added, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

    exec bash

Or, when using `~/.profile`.

    . ~/.profile

To enable Claude Code integration with Oh My Posh, configure Claude Code to use Oh My Posh as the statusline command.

Add the following to your Claude Code settings:

~/.claude/settings.json

    {  "statusLine": {    "type": "command",    "command": "oh-my-posh claude",    "padding": 0  }}

For more information about the Claude segment properties and customization options, see the [Claude segment documentation](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/segments/cli/claude)
.

There's no out-of-the-box support for Windows CMD when it comes to custom prompts. There is however a way to do it using [Clink](https://chrisant996.github.io/clink/)
, which at the same time supercharges your cmd experience. Follow the installation instructions and make sure you select autostart.

Integrating Oh My Posh with Clink is easy: create a new file called oh-my-posh.lua in your Clink scripts directory (run `clink info` inside cmd to find that file's location).

oh-my-posh.lua

    load(io.popen('oh-my-posh init cmd'):read("*a"))()

Once added, restart cmd for the changes to take effect.

info

Clink has builtin support for Oh My Posh. It allows you to set the prompt using the `clink` command.

    clink config prompt use oh-my-posh

To set the configuration file, use the following command:

    clink set ohmyposh.theme <path>

Add the following snippet as the last line to `~/.elvish/rc.elv`:

    eval (oh-my-posh init elvish)

Once added, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

    exec elvish

caution

It is recommended to use the latest version of Fish. Versions below 4.1.0 have issues and do not support [transient prompt](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/configuration/transient)
.

Add the following snippet as the last line to `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:

    oh-my-posh init fish | source

Once added, reload your config for the changes to take effect.

    exec fish

caution

Oh My Posh requires Nushell `v0.104.0` or higher.

Add the following snippet as the last line to the Nushell config file (`$nu.config-path`):

    oh-my-posh init nu

Once added, restart Nushell for the changes to take effect.

Edit your PowerShell profile script, you can find its location under the `$PROFILE` variable in your preferred PowerShell version. For example, using notepad:

    notepad $PROFILE

info

When the above command gives an error, make sure to create the profile first.

    New-Item -Path $PROFILE -Type File -Force

In this scenario, it can also be that PowerShell blocks running local scripts. To solve that, set PowerShell to only require remote scripts to be signed using `Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope LocalMachine`, or [sign the profile](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_signing?view=powershell-7.3#methods-of-signing-scripts)
.

Add the following snippet as the last line to your PowerShell profile script:

    oh-my-posh init pwsh | Invoke-Expression

Execution policy

In case the execution policy disables executing unsigned scripts on your system, you can fallback to evaluating the script instead. Use the `--eval` flag to do so:

    oh-my-posh init pwsh --eval | Invoke-Expression

Be aware this will make initializing the shell slower.

Once added, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

    . $PROFILE

Add the following snippet as the last line to `~/.xonshrc`:

    execx($(oh-my-posh init xonsh))

Once added, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

    exec xonsh

Add the following snippet as the last line to `~/.zshrc`:

    eval "$(oh-my-posh init zsh)"

tip

As the standard terminal has issues displaying the ANSI characters correctly, you might want to skip loading just for that terminal and instead of the line above, place this in your `~/.zshrc`:

    if [ "$TERM_PROGRAM" != "Apple_Terminal" ]; then  eval "$(oh-my-posh init zsh)"fi

Note this will still load Oh My Posh for [iTerm2](https://iterm2.com/)
 or any other modern day macOS terminal that supports ANSI characters.

Once added, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

    exec zsh