[Skip to main content](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/customize#__docusaurus_skipToContent_fallback)

If you're enjoying Oh My Posh, consider becoming a [sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/JanDeDobbeleer)
 to keep the project going strong 💪

On this page

The standard initialization sets Oh My Posh' default, built-in theme.

To set a new configuration or theme you need to change the `--config` option of the `oh-my-posh init <shell>` line in your `profile` or `.<shell>rc` script (see [prompt](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/prompt)
).

These are the three possible values the `--config` flag can handle:

*   a path to a local configuration file
    
        --config 'C:/Users/Posh/myconfig.omp.json'
    
*   a pointer to a theme, without the extensions
    
        --config 'jandedobbeleer'
    
*   a URL pointing to a remote config
    
        --config 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/main/themes/jandedobbeleer.omp.json'
    

info

Using a theme name (like `jandedobbeleer`) or a remote URL requires an active internet connection and will download the configuration on shell start. Caching is in place, but for better performance, it's recommended to use a local configuration file.

Set the configuration[​](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/customize#set-the-configuration "Direct link to Set the configuration")

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The example below uses a local path to the [jandedobbeleer](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/themes#jandedobbeleer)
 theme, adjust the `--config` value to reflect your configuration file, local or remote.

*   bash
*   cmd
*   elvish
*   fish
*   nu
*   powershell
*   xonsh
*   zsh

Git bash

Use the full path to the config file, not the relative path or `~` as a shorthand for `$HOME`.

Adjust the Oh My Posh init line in `~/.bashrc` (could be `~/.profile` or `~/.bash_profile` depending on your environment) by adding the `--config` flag with the location of your configuration.

    eval "$(oh-my-posh init bash --config ~/jandedobbeleer.omp.json)"

Once altered, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

    exec bash

Adjust the Oh My Posh init line in `oh-my-posh.lua` by adding the `--config` flag with the location of your configuration.

oh-my-posh.lua

    load(io.popen('oh-my-posh init cmd --config C:/Users/Posh/jandedobbeleer.omp.json'):read("*a"))()

caution

Use the full path to the config file, not the relative path. You can make use of **forward slashes** to avoid having to use double backslashes.

Once altered, restart cmd for the changes to take effect.

Adjust the Oh My Posh init line in `~/.elvish/rc.elv` by adding the `--config` flag with the location of your configuration.

    eval (oh-my-posh init elvish --config ~/jandedobbeleer.omp.json)

Once added, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

    exec elvish

caution

It is recommended to use the latest version of Fish. Versions below 4.1.0 have issues and do not support [transient prompt](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/configuration/transient)
.

Adjust the Oh My Posh init line in `~/.config/fish/config.fish` by adding the `--config` flag with the location of your configuration.

    oh-my-posh init fish --config ~/jandedobbeleer.omp.json | source

Once altered, reload your config for the changes to take effect.

    . ~/.config/fish/config.fish

caution

Oh My Posh requires Nushell `v0.104.0` or higher.

Adjust the Oh My Posh init line in the Nushell config file (`$nu.config-path`) by adding the `--config` flag with the location of your configuration.

    oh-my-posh init nu --config ~/jandedobbeleer.omp.json

Adjust the Oh My Posh init line in your `$PROFILE` by adding the `--config` flag with the location of your configuration.

    oh-my-posh init pwsh --config ~/jandedobbeleer.omp.json | Invoke-Expression

Once altered, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

    . $PROFILE

info

When the above command gives an error, make sure to create the profile first and add the `oh-my-posh init` above.

    New-Item -Path $PROFILE -Type File -Force

In this scenario, it can also be that PowerShell blocks running local scripts. To solve that, set PowerShell to only require remote scripts to be signed using `Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned`, or [sign the profile](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_signing?view=powershell-7.5#methods-of-signing-scripts)
.

Adjust the Oh My Posh init line in `~/.xonshrc` by adding the `--config` flag with the location of your configuration.

    execx($(oh-my-posh init xonsh --config ~/jandedobbeleer.omp.json))

Once added, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

    exec xonsh

Adjust the Oh My Posh init line in `~/.zshrc` by adding the `--config` flag with the location of your configuration.

    eval "$(oh-my-posh init zsh --config ~/jandedobbeleer.omp.json)"

Once altered, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

    exec zsh

wsl

When using oh-my-posh in Windows and the WSL, know that you can **share your theme with the WSL** by pointing to a theme in your Windows user's home folder.

Inside the WSL, you can find your Windows user's home folder here: `/mnt/c/Users/<WINDOWSUSERNAME>`.

Custom configuration[​](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/customize#custom-configuration "Direct link to Custom configuration")

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Maybe there's a theme you like, but you don't fancy the colors. Or, maybe there's a segment you want to tweak/add, or replace some of the icons with a different one. Whatever the case, **read through available options first**, by starting with the [configuration](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/configuration/general)
.

You can export the current theme (default, or set via `--config`) to the format you like (`json`, `yaml`, or `toml`) which can be used to tweak and store as your own custom configuration.

    oh-my-posh config export --config jandedobbeleer --output ~/.mytheme.omp.json

Live reloading[​](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/customize#live-reloading "Direct link to Live reloading")

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

By default, the configuration is cached for performance reasons. If you make changes to your configuration file and want to see those changes reflected in your prompt without restarting your shell, you can use the following command to enable live reload.

    oh-my-posh enable reload

You can disable live reload with:

    oh-my-posh disable reload

### Previewing changes[​](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/customize#previewing-changes "Direct link to Previewing changes")

If you want to preview your changes, you can use the following command to render every configured prompt.

    oh-my-posh print preview

Use the `--force` flag in case you want to render all segments, regardless of the current context.

    oh-my-posh print preview --force

Read the docs[​](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/customize#read-the-docs "Direct link to Read the docs")

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To fully understand how to customize a theme, read through the documentation in the configuration and segments sections. The [configuration](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/configuration/general)
 section covers the basic building blocks and concepts of Oh My Posh themes, while the segments section covers how to configure each available segment.

*   [Set the configuration](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/customize#set-the-configuration)
    
*   [Custom configuration](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/customize#custom-configuration)
    
*   [Live reloading](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/customize#live-reloading)
    *   [Previewing changes](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/customize#previewing-changes)
        
*   [Read the docs](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/customize#read-the-docs)